I'm going to explain a drama-romance film
called,
"Malena."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Renato, a thirteen-year-old boy from Castelcuto,
Italy, recalls the day Il Duce, Mussolini,
spoke to the nation and announced that he
was declaring
war against France and Great Britain.
That same day, Renato received his first bike.
Excited, Renato rides back to his friends
as Mussolini's
announcement plays on from speakers throughout
the city.
When he arrives, they commend his new bike
before sitting down on the side, mesmerized,
as they watch Malena walk down the street.
Malena is the daughter of their Latin teacher,
Professor
Bonsignore, and as she moves past them, the
group speeds away on their bikes multiple
times, trying to keep their eyes on her.
Admiring her beauty, Renato stares intensely
at her every
chance he gets.
Later on, the group of friends heads to their
Latin class.
Renato contemplates the whole day, still in
awe at Malena's beauty.
The next day, the group of friends hangs out
by
a cliff, measuring their manhood, as they
talk about Malena.
Renato's friend mentions an encounter he had
with Malena, annoying
Renato and prompting him to tease his friend.
Afterwards, Renato skips school and rides
for Malena's
house, where he daydreams about Malena, calling
out to him and asking for cigarettes.
However, his daydream is cut short as he stares
at Malena's house with the doors closed.
At home, his father is furious at him for
skipping school,
getting teased by his friends, and getting
his pants altered.
Later that night, Renato sneaks out of his
room and goes to Malena's house
again.
Climbing a tree, he peeks through a hole in
the
window and looks inside the house, finding
Malena lying down on a couch.
Curious, he watches Malena walk around, listening
to the radio before
he spots a photo of her husband, Nino Scordia.
In a barbershop the following day, the men
inside talk about Malena and how she arrived
in their town through Nino, who's currently
fighting
in the war.
When Renato's number is called, he complains
to the barber, asking him why
he can't sit at the adult's chair.
Of course, the barber simply tells him that
he's still
too young.
After his haircut, Renato goes back to Malena's
house, spying on her with a telescope
and watching her as she dries herself by her
garden.
Later on, Renato climbs to the window, peeking
through a hole to watch her work with her
sewing machine.
As he watches, Renato is surprised to see
Malena's dress slightly falling off,
revealing a part of her body.
Later on, she starts dancing with a picture
of Nino
while a song plays in the background until
it's time for her to return to her room.
The following morning, Renato heads to a music
store and asks for a copy of the song playing
in Malena's house.
Once home, he plays the song while looking
at crude photos of women,
and he imagines them all as Malena as he falls
asleep.
The next day, Renato returns to the cliff
he and his friends hung out in, and he tries
writing Malena a letter.
There, he professes that he doesn't listen
to the town's gossip
and that he's the only man for her after her
husband.
Renato then rejoins his friends as they race
to try and find Malena again.
Then, he makes up an excuse to leave his friends
before catching up to Malena.
When he sees her, the men from the town are
watching her walk
along the road.
The men greet her, but she keeps walking along
while blankly staring at the ground.
One man greets her, kissing her hand repeatedly,
and all the other men watch with jealousy.
Moving on, Malena stares at Lieutenant Cadei
standing by a balcony before quickly removing
her gaze from him.
As she arrives at her destination, Renato
sees her catching a key for a door
leading to an apartment.
Later on in Latin class, some of the students
make crude jokes about Malena, disgusting
Renato.
As the students leave, Renato watches the
students
walk down the stairs to spit on them.
After this, Renato heads to a repairman to
fix his bike,
and from there, he spots Malena again.
Renato could only watch her while the women
in town gossip
with each other, sickened by Malena's presence.
One of the women compares her to Gina, an
escort in the town.
Malena heads for the apartment again, with
Renato still following her.
He then climbs the gate nearby to see who
Malena is seeing,
revealing it to be her father.
Later in the night, Renato is at home, touching
himself as he listens
to the song again, thinking of Malena all
the way.
The next day, during their morning exercises,
one of Renato's friends informs him that Nino
Scordia has died in battle.
Later, Renato attends a memorial for Nino.
During the memorial, two girls get giddy as
they stare at Lieutenant Cadei,
talking about how handsome he is.
After leaving, Renato returns to Professor
Bonsignore's apartment
and sees Malena in bed, crying in grief over
the loss of her husband.
In Renato's imagination, he goes to Malena's
side, comforting and assuring
her that he'll be there for her before Malena
hugs him.
Later, during Nino's funeral procession, Malena
poses as the Virgin Mary,
looking dreadful while a very concerned Renato
watches her from below.
After the procession, he overhears some of
the townspeople gossiping
and slandering Malena yet again, angering
Renato and spurring him to spit in
their drinks and urinate in their bags.
Renato then leaves for a church and prays
to a saint,
asking him to protect Malena from the townspeople.
Leaving the theater, Renato heads out, and
he soon spots Malena leave a store.
The men from the store talk about her crudely,
and when Renato overhears this, he throws
a rock at the store, breaking the window then
riding
away.
After that, Renato sits close to Malena's
house,
and a battalion of German soldiers walk by.
When Malena enters her home, Renato walks
over to her
yard and grabs a pair of her underwear before
running back to his bike to head home.
Back in his room, Renato touches himself again,
holding
Malena's underwear close to him and imagining
the two of them together until he falls asleep.
The next day, Renato's father walks into Renato's
room and finds him still asleep with the underwear
draped over his head.
His father throws a fit, telling Renato that
he's ashamed of him while
the rest of Renato's family catches on.
After scolding him, Renato's father locks
him inside his room while Renato's mother
burns the underwear as she cries in shame.
Three days pass, and Renato's mother is concerned
for her son,
who hasn't eaten yet.
Then, she complains about how the fascists
treat them.
The following day, a doctor visits Renato
to check on him, and
he informs his family that he needs to get
out.
Afterwards, Renato rides his bike to Malena's
house again, and the streets are now filled
with more people and vehicles.
Arriving there, he sees Lieutenant Cadei,
along with other men,
staring at Malena's house.
As the day goes by, Renato is in the middle
of a report in
class when suddenly, a man comes in and hands
a letter to Professor Bonsignore.
In the letter, someone wrote that the Professor
is dishonored
as his daughter's been sleeping with the whole
town.
Heartbroken, the Professor leaves his class,
and the students are left to gossip about
the letter.
Insulted, Renato fights one of the students,
all while imagining himself as a gladiator
for Malena.
At night, Renato returns to Malena's home
and finds Lieutenant Cadei inside,
speaking to her.
Renato is angered by what he sees, especially
when Lieutenant Cadei kisses
Malena before saying goodbye.
On his way out, the Lieutenant bumps into
the dentist,
Doctor Cusimano.
The dentist berates him for pestering Malena,
who he calls his fiance.
Cusimano slaps Lieutenant Cadei first, and
though the Lieutenant initially refused to
retaliate, he fights back when he gets slapped
a second
time.
The two fight, and it isn't long until Doctor
Cusimano's wife arrives with the police
in tow.
She furiously calls her husband an adulterer,
and while the police try to break up the men's
fight, she goes in front of Malena's house,
cursing her and telling her to steal husbands
from her own village instead.
Meanwhile, Renato can only watch with an incredulous
look on
his face as the police start arresting the
two fools.
The following day, the townspeople gossip
about last night's incident,
arguing over who was at fault.
Many express their shock over Malena supposedly
having two lovers,
and they mention that the Professor's already
quit his teaching position in disgrace.
The people also point out that Malena should
go to court for
luring a married man.
Renato overhears this as he walks by, then
starts looking for Malena
again.
Back in her father's apartment, Malena tries
to unlock the door, but the key doesn't
fit.
Renato, watching from the side, realizes that
the
Professor has given up on his daughter, and
he just stares at Malena with a worried look.
Later on, Malena walks to Attorney Centorbi's
office,
asking for counsel, before proceeding to court.
Inside the busy courtroom, Renato watches
while Malena is put to trial.
The judge proceeds to ask Malena questions
about the dentist and
their relationship.
Malena tells the judge that Doctor Cusimano
only visited her once to give medicine
for her father and that he lied about being
her
fiancé.
When the judge asks about Lieutenant Cadei,
Malena tells him that their relationship
is no concern of the law.
However, the judge informs Malena that because
of the incident,
Lieutenant Cadei was questioned in a judicial
inquiry before being transferred to Albania.
With that, he asks his clerk to report Lieutenant
Cadei's statement.
Disappointed, Malena listens while the clerk
informs everyone that Lieutenant
Cadei had a casual view of his relationship
with
Malena, and he claims that they were only
friends.
Attorney Centorbi then starts speaking passionately,
defending Malena and blaming
Doctor Cusimano as he makes a case that Malena's
only sin is her beauty and that she
only wants to live a new life after her loss.
When the court is dismissed, Malena and Attorney
Centorbi head back to her house,
and they dance while Renato watches from the
window.
Malena and Centorbi talk for a while before
Centorbi makes his move on her, telling
her that the only payment he wants is Malena
herself.
Renato watches in horror as Centorbi forces
himself on Malena,
trying to make her love him.
In an attempt to get a better view, Renato
moves to another branch,
but it breaks, making the boy fall.
The next day, Renato returns to the church
and talks to the saint, telling him
that he forgives Malena for what she did last
night.
He then tells the saint that he didn't protect
Malena, so he breaks the saint's arm to make
them even.
In class, Renato continues to think about
Malena, and he writes a letter to her,
professing his love for her and how she doesn't
deserve a man like Centorbi.
Renato then imagines his Professor as Malena
but is cut off when
his Professor scolds him for doing the wrong
activity.
Renato storms out of the class, and he pushes
a statue, making it fall off and break.
Afterwards, Renato is with his family in the
tailor.
While Renato has long pants fit for him, his
father listens to the radio, where there
are talks of the continuous Allied bombings.
Leaving the tailor, Renato then spies on Centorbi,
who is visiting his mother.
Renato watches and laughs when his mother
hits him, screaming at him in disapproval
of Malena.
After that, Renato follows Centorbi and finds
him together with a teary-eyed Malena, and
there, they end their relationship.
This fills Renato with relief, and he goes
ahead to the barbershop.
After this, Renato continues to follow Malena
while she's being pestered by men along the
streets.
She passes through an alley to avoid attention,
and all of a sudden, she slows down.
When Renato sees this, he thinks that Malena
is walking towards him, so he slows down as
well.
To his disappointment, Malena walks past him
and approaches Antonio, a man who gives her
food.
As Renato watches on, he suddenly hears loud
engines, signalling the arrival of the Allied
planes and making Renato run to his bike to
escape while the Allies start bombing parts
of the town.
After the bombing run, Renato runs to one
of the destroyed buildings, where soldiers
pull Professor Bonsignore's body.
Shortly after, Malena, together with her father's
students,
join the funeral procession for the Professor.
As he is put to rest, dozens of men line up
to
Malena, offering their condolences.
Renato lines up as well, only to be cut off
by an older man,
and he eventually moves away when he sees
more men whispering into Malena's ear.
After the funeral, Malena returns home and
starts cutting her
hair and washing up while Renato helplessly
watches from the door.
A car suddenly drives up to Malena's house,
making Renato hide.
Antonio's friend Salvatore exits the car and
knocks
on Malena's door.
After greeting him, she welcomes him inside.
From the hole in the window, Renato is in
tears as he watches Salvatore immediately
force himself on Malena.
While Salvatore pleasures himself, Malena
stares coldly at the ceiling,
leaving Renato to storm back home in his rage.
The day after, more Germans occupy the town
while
Renato walks along the streets before seeing
Malena.
The sight completely transfixes him as Malena
now has red hair, and she's wearing
revealing clothes.
The men around her look in amazement, and
the women look at her with
complete disgust while she makes her way to
a table.
Blank-faced, Malena gets out a cigarette,
and all the men around her offer a lighter.
Renato watches disappointedly.
The next morning, Renato listens and watches
as men inside the barbershop see Malena
with blonde hair now.
She's with the escort Gina, and together,
they serve the Germans there.
Because of this, Renato imagines the atrocities
Malena and Gina do with the Germans in their
hotel before eventually passing out.
Renato's parents pick him up from the barbershop,
and they take him to the church where they
have him exorcised as his mother believes
that
he is possessed by the devil.
Afterwards, they take him to a house by the
sea for some rituals.
Outside, Renato's father cries in disapproval,
believing that Renato only needs to sleep
with a woman to cure him of his foolishness.
After the rituals, Renato's father takes him
to a brothel,
and inside, Renato carefully chooses before
settling with a dark-haired escort.
The two then move up to a room where they
begin hooking up.
Later on, the Allies now enter the town, freeing
Castelcuto of German influence.
Renato celebrates, and he happily rides one
of the American jeeps.
Suddenly, a group of women storms a building,
and they pull out Malena.
The women start beating her on the streets,
and they tear off her clothes,
publicly humiliating her.
Horrified, Renato couldn't do a thing as the
women cut her
hair and curse her for sleeping with their
husbands.
Once they were done, Malena is left helpless
and bloodied, crying out in
pain and humiliation before the women cast
her out of town.
Shortly after, Renato rides to the train station
and sees Malena boarding.
Without ever speaking with the woman he yearns
for the most, Renato
watches her leave.
In the cliff where he and his friends hang
out, a miserable-looking